AA273: State Estimation Final Project by Michelle Ho

The problem of robotic assembly stretches a variety of domains, including manufacturing and in-orbit service and repair. In partially observable environments, this task requires reasoning over hybrid state spaces, which can include variables like pose uncertainty and physical compatibilities. We formalize the partially observable assembly estimation problem as inference over a hybrid discrete-continuous state space. With the goal of eventual online inference, we compare two belief estimators on accuracy and speed. The decoupled estimator separates the belief into continuous and discrete components, updating them with an Extended Kalman Filter and a Bayesian Filter. The coupled estimator updates the combined belief state with a particle filter. We make the problem partially observable by considering sensor noise, removing the depth dimension from view with a front-facing camera, and making the internal compatibilities unknown until an attachment is tried. We simulate the assembly of a LEGO block tower and compare the estimators. We found the decoupled estimator to perform worse than the coupled estimator due to the increasing error over time caused by the correlation between pose error and internal compatibility. However, the coupled estimator update increases linearly with the number of particles required, which improves the estimate. The next step will test the estimators in a hardware experiment to evaluate whether the accuracy improvement from the coupled estimator justifies the increased computational effort.
